hello and welcome to CNC tutorials I'm
Josh I'm walking through the shopbot CNC
machine in this video I want to cover
the parts some functions and some tips
regarding this machine so let's get
started here you can see a front view of
the machine there are three axes that
make up the shopbot CNC machine the
x-axis the y-axis and the z-axis you can
also see the router that is used with
the machine the router speed is manually
controlled meaning a switch on top of
the router controls the speed and must
be set for each type of bit and material
that are you are going to be cutting
with there are also two sensors visible
here that make up part of the sensor
array on the shopbot machine there's a Z
plate and the stop sensor more info on
both these later below these you can see
the table this is a surface set your
métier will be placed on top of for
cutting the table is comprised of a
bottom layer of plywood and then two
layers of MDF this is all screwed
together and then held under the
brackets below on the right you can also
see the jigs that are used for smaller
pieces cheeks are a great way to hold
small pieces of wood and cut different
pieces multiple times however you must
ensure when making these jigs that they
do not interfere with the cutting
operation of the CNC machine here you
can see a close-up of the upper carriage
on this carriage you can see the router
and the stop sensor for the y-axis
in addition below the router you can see
the dust collection system that has been
installed there is a shroud around the
router bit that keeps dust inside the
dust collection system and prevents it
from escaping on the back of the dust
collection system you can see the tube
that eventually leads to the vacuum
here's a side view of the x-axis note on
the bottom the stop sensor there is only
one stop sensor for the
Sassy's so there will not be another one
on the other side of the carriage in
addition you can see one of the most
important parts on the CNC machine the
stop button this button should be
carried with you at all times while the
machine is running if something goes
awry or there's an emergency you can
press this button and the Machine will
completely stop its operations and turn
off the router in addition you can also
see the x-axis motor there are two
motors for the x-axis so there will be
one on the other side of the carriage
this is a close-up of the stop sensor on
the x-axis an important thing to note
here is the red light on the stop sensor
if the sensor is triggered which means
it is hovering above one of the stopped
bolts the light will turn off thus it
provides an easy way for you to tell if
a sensor has been triggered and which
sensor is triggered so you can correct
it now we move on to the z plate here's
the setup for the Z plate the clip goes
on the bit on the router the Z plate
itself goes on top of whatever material
you're going to be cutting preferably on
a flat area the bit will then drop to
the material hit the Z plate and then go
back up it'll do this again making a
total of two times this way you don't
have to manually set where the Z point
is on your material or the highest point
on the material that you're going to be
coming here we can see the top part of
the upper carriage note the on/off
switch on the CNC machine if the switch
is in the off position there is no way
for the CNC machine to turn on the
router thus always ensure that the
switch is in the on position before
beginning a cut also note the speed
controls on the router this must be
manually set before beginning a cut
depending on what material and what bet
you are going to be using there is also
a handy label reminding you that this is
the z-axis that moves the router up and
down in this view you can also see the
y-axis motor
now we move on to the dust collection
system and the control box note the
tubing which leads to the dust
collection head that we discussed
earlier around the router bed and to the
vacuum on the side of the CNC machine
wrapped around this tubing as a static
reduction system comprised of a metal
cable this cable collects static
electricity that is built up in the
tubes and displaces it onto the frame of
the CNC machine the static would
otherwise cause disconnects between the
computer and the CNC machine next note
the USB and the power cables for the
computer box this USB cable is what
connects the control box and the
computer the control box is the silver
shopbot box located below the table on
the CNC machine on this box you can find
the disable switch and the power off
switch the CNC machine is hardwired into
the power grid thus the only way to turn
off the CNC machine completely is to
flick the swap our switch into the off
position you can also see the x-axis
motor that we talked about earlier and
also know that again there is no stop
sensor on this side of the x-axis next
we can see here the manual stops located
on the x-axis in addition to the
software-based stops whose stop sensors
there are manual stops located on all
the axes on all sides of the axes this
way if the software sensors fail
mechanical sensors are in place to
prevent the machine from hurting anyone
finally we move on to the back of the
upper carriage
you can see the vacuum tube the
connections for the dust collection
system and the black set of cables that
make up the upper carriage connections
ensure that these cables are not tangled
or going to be caught and tangled as the
system moves about the y-axis well that
concludes the walkthrough of the shopbot
CNC machine thanks for watching